 how to connect EC2 to remote server : 
EC2_user : giving user name : to create 7 stpes in EC2 
we use public ip and private ip : 
-To calculate ip - 2^32-n 
-A computer consists of hardware-os-application-EC2-cloud-data center-(it has hardware software and data storage devices - regional
Data center - Mumbai and Hyderabad 
To create VP- choose a region : A group of data zones have high avaibalitycalled availability zone 
1 availability zone consists of min 3 to 6 data centers 

tree diagram : 1 region --3 to 6 data centers --1 availability zone
hardware--->os--->application--->aws--->data centers--->Hyderabad,mumbai (region)--->min 3 max 6 availability zones---> each availability zone has 3 data centers  ---> for eg : 1.availability zone =3 ds ,2.availability zone=3ds ,3.availability zone=3ds =9  data centers 
In US there 6 availability zones 

VPC - virtual private cloud ..its a network environment with public cloud infrastructure provider 
VPC--->availability zone--->data center--->EC2,S3---> launch name, AMI, keypair , instance type , VPC , storage 

what are subnets?
subdivisions of vpc ip address range used to group resources like EC2 instances and databases within a single Availability Zone. They can be public, meaning resources can access the internet directly via an internet gateway, or private, which requires a NAT device for outbound internet access but no direct inbound access from the internet 
Difference between the public subnet and private subnet
If we talk in simple language, instances in the public subnet can send traffic to the outside world whereas instances in the private subnet can't.

Now you must be wondering how we define/identify public and private subnets. To understand it better, let's come back to the subnet we created named public-subnet-1. I have named it "public" but it is not public yet.

To understand between the public subnet and private subnet, let's understand the Route table, Internet gateway, and NAT gateway

Route Table: It is used to do routing decisions. It contains existing routes to CIDR blocks outside of the ranges in your VPC. For example, it controls routing to Internet gateways, NAT gateways

Internet Gateway: It is a component that allows communication between VPC and internet. If your VPC doesn't have an internet gateway, resources within your VPC can't be accessed from the internet. For example, a website deployed to one of your EC2 servers.

NAT Gateway: A Network Address Translation (NAT) allows instances in your private subnet to connect to outside services like Databases but restricts external services to connecting to these instances.

